# Skills

Skills represent how good a character is at doing a given activity. Most skills
govern multiple different activities. For example, Athletics governs all
activities which involve strenuous physical activity. Skills are divided into
two categories: passive and active. Passive skills cannot be used in an active
manner.

---

# Passive Skills
- Diplomacy
- Insight
- Perception
# Active Skills
- Agility
- Arcana
- Athletics
- Coercion 
- Investigation
- Medicine
- Nature
- Performance
- Religion
- Stealth
- Survival
- Thievery

# About passive skills
## Diplomacy

Diplomacy represents a characters ability to naturally fit into society and
navigate social situations. A highly diplomatic character will effortlessly
converse with kings and lowlifes alike while a character with low diplomacy
would have to expend much more effort towards achieving the same result. For
instance, we often make impressions on people without thinking about it, but if
we are *trying* to impress our date, it becomes more of a *persuasion* that we
are a fun, interesting person. In this system, this difference is represented
by the diplomacy passive skill and the coercion active skill.

Furthermore, it is important to note that sometimes we converse with people in
an effort to gain information, perhaps as part of an interview or in a search
for clues. In these situations, we are not trying to coerce them in any way,
but it is still an active, skill-based activity to glean the correct
information from what someone is telling us. In this case, the conversional
skill-check would be governed by Investigation. 

## Insight

Insight is our ability to passively ponder the state of others' well-being as
well as our own actions. Insight is like our intuition, the gut feeling that
strikes you when you walk near a ledge or the empathy you automatically feel
when approaching your crying mother. When we are actively examining a person or
situation, the counterpart is investigation.

## Perception

Unlike other systems, perception is always passive. Perception represents our
passive ability to notice things that are out of place. Our reflex to look at a
moving object in the corner of our eye or to pay attention to things when our
minds are elsewhere. When we seek out information like if we were searching for
traps, the active counterpart is Investigation. 
